Meaning of Life

Why do most of us tend to be self-destructive at times? I don't think we consciously choose to be so. It is more of result of a bunch of bad habits (that turned out to be destructive) picked up over years. To analyze this, let us think about the known variables. One thing I know for sure is that people who are unhappy, tend to be self-destructive. Where does happiness come from? Happiness is a by-product of achievement. Achievement requires the subject to perceive the world as meaningful, and the conviction that he is or hopes to be a cog in the complex meaningful machine, the world is. Being a part of the machine gives purpose to his life and knowing that he can someday grow and influence the behaviour of the machine keeps him happy. Ignorance is the enemy.

Understanding the Artistic Beauty of Nature

Does he ever understand the machine as a whole? Can he ever see the big picture? Without understanding the world, how can he choose/figure out his role? Are we all too busy trying to etch our names in the windows of the world, that we ignore the beauty of it. The need to be remembered is too overwhelming that it hijacks the part of our brain that appreciates beauty. We should understand that we are a part of nature. I know that your ego (consciousness) is screaming NO! But, our consciousness that makes us unique and separate from the world, is itself a construct of nature. Look at it this way (I do). Nature created unique beings to be understood and admired by them from unique perspectives. 

I think clearly; I am

An artist who imitates without understanding is no artist; his art has no soul (paraphrasing Da Vinci). Art is a form of communication with the external world. Everyone feels the need to express himself to the world, to break out of the shell of isolation. Our languages have evolved over years with one primary goal: to facilitate understanding. Language is also essential to understand oneself. We communicate with ourselves through unspoken words: thoughts. Our thoughts are shaped as well as limited, by the language we use. Thoughts are powerful agents. In the right host, they can build and destroy cities. Our every (conscious) action is an effect of series of thougts. We exist today as conscious rational beings because of our rational thoughts that run in the background. 

Balance of Life

Life can be difficult at times. Meaningless and empty at times. It leads you to believe that everything that happens is just a series of events caused by the antecedant events, with the initial conditions set by the Big Bang. Our conscious mind loses control of our body. A ghost drives our machine in a random fashion, while we sit back and watch. Other times, we feel a lack of control over our actions and thoughts, when we work for others, making our corporate masters richer. Overwhelmed by the drama, we yearn for the illusive free will. My philosophy of life is that throughout life we should struggle to be free, while simultaneously keeping the randomness at bay.  


Do I dare generalize my person experience?
